docs/examples/python/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "python"
date: 2021-03-19 08:17:00 --0600
categories:
---

## Overview

The following example uses the [pygnmi](https://pypi.org/project/pygnmi/) python module to talk to gNMI
devices.

```shell
python3 pygnmi.py
```

The following will simply run the pygnmi.py file using python3 to get the
openconfig interfaces.

## Truncated output

```javascript
{
    "notification": [
        {
            "timestamp": 0,
            "update": [
                {
                    "path": "interfaces",
                    "json_ietf_val": {
                        "openconfig-interfaces:interface": [
                            {
                                "config": {
                                    "enabled": true,
                                    "arista-intf-augments:load-interval": 300,
                                    "loopback-mode": false,
                                    "mtu": 0,
                                    "name": "Ethernet1",
                                    "openconfig-vlan:tpid": "openconfig-vlan-types:TPID_0X8100",
                                    "type": "iana-if-type:ethernetCsmacd"
                                },

```

Commit message:

a rather large refactoring
this consolidates the following items.
- removes unused/unreferenced documents from the repo
- moves sample code in the examples hierarchy into a new portion of the
  repo (src) such that it can be referenced and updated. however, as an
  interim measure, the contents of the sample code has been pulled into
  the markdown files referencing it.
- refactors the configuration section to treat OC/NETCONF/RESTCONF as
  directly addressable topics. adds a certificate authenciation section
  (new)
- removes the TOC from pages which had it. (this is automatically
  generated by mkdocs)
- adds a nav section to the mkdocs.yml file to only reference the docs
  sections with content.
a

docs/examples/python/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "python"
date: 2021-03-19 08:17:00 --0600
categories:
---

## Overview

The following example uses the [pygnmi](https://pypi.org/project/pygnmi/) python module to talk to gNMI
devices.

```python
# Modules
from pygnmi.client import gNMIclient
import json

# Variables
host = ('10.20.30.67', '6030')

# Body
if __name__ == '__main__':
    with gNMIclient(target=host, username='ansible', password='ansible', insecure=True) as gc:
         result = gc.get(path=['openconfig:interfaces'])
    print(json.dumps(result, indent=4))
```

Assuming that the `pygnmi` module has been installed, this can be executed via the following command.

```shell
python3 pygnmi.py
```

The following will simply run the pygnmi.py file using python3 to get the openconfig interfaces.

## Truncated output

```javascript
{
    "notification": [
        {
            "timestamp": 0,
            "update": [
                {
                    "path": "interfaces",
                    "json_ietf_val": {
                        "openconfig-interfaces:interface": [
                            {
                                "config": {
                                    "enabled": true,
                                    "arista-intf-augments:load-interval": 300,
                                    "loopback-mode": false,
                                    "mtu": 0,
                                    "name": "Ethernet1",
                                    "openconfig-vlan:tpid": "openconfig-vlan-types:TPID_0X8100",
                                    "type": "iana-if-type:ethernetCsmacd"
                                },

```
